SSRS - SQL Server Reporting Services

SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) is a reporting tool provided by Microsoft 
which is used to produce formatted reports such as graphs, tables of data, and charts.

SSRS stands for SQL Server Reporting Services.
It is a reporting tool developed by Microsoft that comes free with the SQL Server.
It produces formatted reports with the tables of data, graph, and reports.
Reports are hosted on a server and can be configured to run using parameters supplied by users.
When we run the reports, the current data appears from the database, XML file or other data source. 
It provides the security features that controls who can see which reports.


Data visualization is the virtual access to the data that we have.
A well-designed data can be a graph, charts or a report, and visual representation of the data is the simplest and most powerful representation of any data. 
For example, I am a Business Analyst, so I am used in working with the numbers since I have started,
but if I want to show the information with respect to the business to the owner, 
then I need to provide the visual representation of a data which is easier to understand.


SSRS have features like
1 - Standard Microsoft Development Environment.
2 - Mobile support.
3 - Advanced Analytics
4 - No cost

Microsoft analytic services, server integration services, reporting services e.t.c

You can link any of these data sources to the Microsoft SQL Server. 
Once you attached the data sources to the SQL Server, then data retrieval and rendering process happen.
Rendering is the process of filtering and analyzing the data to meet the requirements. 
Report processing: Report processing comes after Rendering.
Report processing is the process of publishing, filtering, and modifying the existing reports. 
XML web service interface: When you publish the report then the report is published to the website,
it is possible through the XML web service interface. Security and Scheduling and delivery come with the SQL Server.

Lifecycle of SSRS - reporting 
Authon - report banayega
management - report ki managemnet hogi and achee se uska dhyan rakha jayega
Delivery - us report ko kab submite krna hai kese krna hai 

all these

Steps -

1 - Connect data warehouse / data source
2 - create report wizard
3 - Now add your data from data warehouse to report wizard.
4 - insert chart and pie charts graphs directly by right clicking and selecting the value.
5 - after that you can display the same data through using xml to websites and web apps.

and see the imageination of it


Here, are prime reasons for using SSRS tool:

SSRS is an enhanced tool compared to Crystal Reports
Faster processing of reports on both relational and multidimensional data
Allows better and more accurate Decision-making mechanism for the users
Allows users to interact with information without involving IT professionals
It provides a World Wide Web-based connection for deploying reports. Hence, reports can be accessed over the internet
SSRS allows reports to be exported in different formats. You can deliver SSRS reports using emails
SSRS provides a host of security features, which helps you to control, who can access which report.

SSRS With SQL Sockets























